# Workshop Week 9 - Text Analytics

In this Workshop you will practice with the use of SAS Viya and Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studiofor text analytics.

## 1. SAS Viya for Learners

SAS Viya for Learners provides a cloud-based set of tools for data analytics. In this section you will use some of its text analytics tools.

We have enrolled all the ITEC874 and COMP733 students in a special course at SAS Viya for Learners. To access the course, visit https://vfe.sas.com/portal/home. Then, follow the instructions to register in the course "Big Data Technologies". To register you need to use your Macquarie University student email address.

The following exercises are based on the course notes of SAS Visual Analytics advanced course for SAS Viya.

* [SAS Visual Analytics 2 for SAS Viya: Advanced - Course Notes](LWYVA23V_001.pdf)

### 1.1 Text Analytics - Orders

Complete Demo 6-10 in Lesson 6 of the course notes of SAS Visual Analytics advanced course for SAS Viya. This demo will lead you through a set of steps to address the following business scenario:

    Business Scenario: Orders

    The Customer Loyalty team at Orion Star has requested an analysis of notes taken when a customer placed an order.

    They would like to see a list of common topics and analyze the sentiment of the notes . In addition, the Customer Complaint Department is interested in those orders that produced notes with negative sentiment.

### 1.2 (Optional) Text Analytics - Course Descriptions

As an optional task, if you have time, attempt Practice 6-18 in Lesson 6 of the course notes of SAS Visual Analytics advanced course for SAS Viya. 

The business scenario is:

    Business Scenario - Course Descriptions

    The Education Division at SAS has requested analysis of course descriptions.

    They would like to see a list of common topics and analyze the sentiment of each course description.


## 2. Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio for Text Analytics

Microsoft Azure Machine Learning Studio offers a range of tools for text analytics. These are demonstrated in the following webpage.

* [Text Analytics](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/azure/machine-learning/studio-module-reference/text-analytics)

### 2.1 News Categorisation

This tutorial from the Azure AI Gallery shows a simple text analytics process to classify news into categories. Open the project in Studio, run it, and examine the results. Make sure that you understand all of the components.

* [Multiclass Classification: News categorization](https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/fcb1bf27ee26443fb19bd07852a620c4)

Answer the following questions:

1. What does each "Join Data" cell do? Why do you think we need to do that?
2. What do the "Feature Hashing" cells do?
3. What are the classification results on the training data? and on the test data? What can you conclude from this?

### 2.2 Find Similar Companies

This tutorial from the Azure AI Gallery uses clustering to find similar companies. Open the project in Studio, run it, and examine the results. Make sure that you understand all of the components.

* [Clustering: Find similar companies](https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/60cf8e46935c4fafbf86f669121a24f0)

Answer the following questions:

1. What criteria were used to determine the similarity between two documents?
2. The result creates three clusters. Examine the clusters. Can you determine what category each cluster represents?

### 2.3 (Optional) Sentiment Analysis

If you have not done so, follow this series of tutorials on text classification for sentiment analysis. They show a series of steps to conduct text classification, starting from the preprocessing of data, and finishing with the evaluation of the results and deployment as a web service. This is the set of optional exercises from the workshops of week 7.

* [Text classification](https://gallery.azure.ai/Experiment/f43e79f47d8a4219bf8613d271ea2c45)
