# Workshop Week 10 - Visual Analytics

In this Workshop you will practice with the use of the Visual Text Analytics and Visual Analytics modules of SAS Viya for Learners. If you have not registered for the Big Data Technologies course at SAS Viya for Learners yet, please follow the instructions at the beginning of the [week 9 workshop](W09.md).

## Questionnaire about ITEC874/COMP733

**At the beginning of the workshop we will allow some time so that you can complete an online questionnaire about ITEC874/COMP733. These questionnaires are anonymous and we will receive the results after the exams have been completed and the students have been graded.**

## 1. Visual Text Analytics

The following exercises use the same data that you will use in [Assignment 3](../assignments/A3.md). They will help you understand the Text Analytics components of SAS Viya for Learners, and they will also help you explore the data that you will use for the assignment.

The exercises are part of the following course notes:

* [SAS Visual Text Analytics in SAS Viya - course notes](../reading/LWSVTA34_001.pdf)

### 1.1 Extracting Drug Dosages from User-Feedback Documents

Complete Demo 1-6 of the course notes. This demonstration illustrates how to use SAS Visual Text Analytics to extract specific drug dosages from customer-feedback documents.

The first pages of the demo are not relevant. Please start the demo from page 1-11 of the course notes. The demo ends in page 1-20.

### 1.2 Retrieving Information and Documents about Anxiety and Depression from Drug Reports

Complete Case Study 5.2 of the course notes. This case study focuses on information retrieval related to medication, dosage, and side effects to identify documents that are related to depression and anxiety.

The case study starts in page 5-4 and ends in page 5-32.

## 2. Visual Analytics

The Visual Analytics exercises are part of the following course notes:

* [SAS Visual Analytics 1 for SAS Viya: Basics - course notes](../reading/LWYVA13V_001.pdf)

Completing all the exercises will be very time consuming. We will allocate time in the workshops of next weeks so that you can complete all the exercises. If you can, complete the exercises of section 2.1. below.

### 2.1. Getting Started with SAS Visual Analytics

Read Lesson 1 of the course notes. This lesson is an introduction to SAS Visual Analytics. You will see that SAS Visual Analytics methodology has the following stages:

1. Access
2. Investigate
3. Prepare
4. Analyze
5. Report

**Question:** Can you tell how these stages relate to the SEMMA process, and how they relate to the Steps in a Data Mining Project that we saw in week 8?

**Exercise 2.1.1:** Follow Demo 1-5, which will show you how to explore the SAS Drive and find the material that you will use for the following exercises.

**Exercise 2.1.2:** Follow Demo 1-26, which will show you how to view Visual Analytics reports.

**Exercise 2.1.3:** Complete Practice 1-37 for a review of this section.

### 2.2 Analysing Data Using SAS Visual Analytics

Read lesson 3 of the course notes. This lesson will detail the capabilities of SAS Visual Analytics. Start working on the demos and exercises of this lesson. You will not be able to complete all of them this week. In the next weeks we will allocate time to complete them.
