# Workshop Week 12 - More Visual Text Analytics

The following exercises are optional for those who have not completed the exercises from past workshops. They are additional exercises on visual text analytics using SAS Viya for Learners.

If you have not registered for the Big Data Technologies course at SAS Viya for Learners yet, please follow the instructions at the beginning of the [week 9 workshop](W09.md).

## Questionnaire about ITEC874/COMP733

**If you have not completed the questionnaire about ITEC874/COMP733, please do it at this workshop. They are very important for us so that we can improve the unit. These questionnaires are anonymous and we will receive the results after the exams have been completed and the students have been graded.**

## 1. Visual Text Analytics

The following exercises are part of the following course notes:

* [SAS Visual Text Analytics in SAS Viya - course notes](../reading/LWSVTA34_001.pdf)

### 1.1 Custom Concepts

Complete Demo 2-15, Practice 2-39, Demo 2-41, and Practice 2-54 of the course notes. These demonstrations show how to use predefined concepts and how to define concepts.

The material uses the document SASGF_2013_PAPERS_CL_LNX. If you do not find it under the "Available" tab when your are asked to select the source data, you can find it under "Data Sources" by navigating to the folder SVTA34. This folder contains all the material from the SAS Visual Text Analytics course.


### 1.2 Concept and Category Rule Definitions

If you have time, complete the demos in Lesson 4. These demos focus on the details of how to define concept and category rules for Visual Text Analytics.

### 1.3 Exploring and Categorizing Consumer Complaints

Complete Case Study 5.4. This case study shows how to use SAS Visual Text Analytics to explore and categorize consumer complaints that are related to the banking and finance industry.

You do not need to attempt to deploy the model (page 5-68 and following). Chances are that the software license would not allow to deploy the model.

